docs/metrics.rst, before:

..  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

..  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Metrics
=======

Airflow can be set up to send metrics to `StatsD <https://github.com/etsy/statsd>`__:

Configuration
-------------
Add the following lines to your configuration file e.g. ``airflow.cfg``

.. code-block:: bash

    [scheduler]
    statsd_on = True
    statsd_host = localhost
    statsd_port = 8125
    statsd_prefix = airflow

Counters
--------

=================================== ================================================================
Name                                Description
=================================== ================================================================
<job_name>_start                    Number of started <job_name> job, ex. SchedulerJob, LocalTaskJob
<job_name>_end                      Number of ended <job_name> job, ex. SchedulerJob, LocalTaskJob
operator_failures_<operator_name>   Operator <operator_name> failures
operator_successes_<operator_name>  Operator <operator_name> successes
ti_failures                         Overall task instances failures
ti_successes                        Overall task instances successes
zombies_killed                      Zombie tasks killed
scheduler_heartbeat                 Scheduler heartbeats
=================================== ================================================================

Gauges
------

=============================================== ========================================================================
Name                                            Description
=============================================== ========================================================================
collect_dags                                    Seconds taken to scan and import DAGs
dagbag_import_errors                            DAG import errors
dagbag_size                                     DAG bag size
dag_processing.last_runtime.<dag_file>          Seconds spent processing <dag_file> (in most recent iteration)
dag_processing.last_run.seconds_ago.<dag_file>  Seconds since <dag_file> was last processed
executor.open_slots                             Number of of open slots on executor
executor.queued_tasks                           Number of queued tasks on executor
executor.running_tasks                          Number of running tasks on executor
=============================================== ========================================================================

Timers
------

================================= =======================================
Name                              Description
================================= =======================================
dagrun.dependency-check.<dag_id>  Seconds taken to check DAG dependencies
dag.<dag_id>.<task_id>.duration   Seconds taken to finish a task
================================= =======================================

Commit message:

[AIRFLOW-4106] instrument staving tasks in pool (#4927)

docs/metrics.rst, after:

..  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

..  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Metrics
=======

Airflow can be set up to send metrics to `StatsD <https://github.com/etsy/statsd>`__:

Configuration
-------------
Add the following lines to your configuration file e.g. ``airflow.cfg``

.. code-block:: bash

    [scheduler]
    statsd_on = True
    statsd_host = localhost
    statsd_port = 8125
    statsd_prefix = airflow

Counters
--------

=================================== ================================================================
Name                                Description
=================================== ================================================================
<job_name>_start                    Number of started <job_name> job, ex. SchedulerJob, LocalTaskJob
<job_name>_end                      Number of ended <job_name> job, ex. SchedulerJob, LocalTaskJob
operator_failures_<operator_name>   Operator <operator_name> failures
operator_successes_<operator_name>  Operator <operator_name> successes
ti_failures                         Overall task instances failures
ti_successes                        Overall task instances successes
zombies_killed                      Zombie tasks killed
scheduler_heartbeat                 Scheduler heartbeats
=================================== ================================================================

Gauges
------

=============================================== ========================================================================
Name                                            Description
=============================================== ========================================================================
collect_dags                                    Seconds taken to scan and import DAGs
dagbag_import_errors                            DAG import errors
dagbag_size                                     DAG bag size
dag_processing.last_runtime.<dag_file>          Seconds spent processing <dag_file> (in most recent iteration)
dag_processing.last_run.seconds_ago.<dag_file>  Seconds since <dag_file> was last processed
executor.open_slots                             Number of of open slots on executor
executor.queued_tasks                           Number of queued tasks on executor
executor.running_tasks                          Number of running tasks on executor
pool.starving_tasks.<pool_name>                 Number of starving tasks in the pool
=============================================== ========================================================================

Timers
------

================================= =======================================
Name                              Description
================================= =======================================
dagrun.dependency-check.<dag_id>  Seconds taken to check DAG dependencies
dag.<dag_id>.<task_id>.duration   Seconds taken to finish a task
================================= =======================================
